The two topics I'd like to chose as potential topics are the average level of consumer sentiment and my own topic revolving around rising credit card balances since COVID.

Avg. Level of Consumer Sentiment:

Utililzing the University of Michigan consumer sentiment index as well as info from the NY Fed on consumer expectations, I want to look at how trends in consumer sentiment change as presidential administrations change. I think decomposing sentiment into its different aspects like job stability, personal finances, the economy, etc. could offer a dynamic prism to look at the shifts through. Also, I'd want to break down the sentiment across different segments of the population. For example, would senior citizens react better to a Democratic president than others, since they're more dependent on social security and other transfer payments? Fundamentally, I'd want to explore the heterogeneity in types of sentiment across administration and then across different segments of the population. Preliminarily, my hypothesis is that by-and-large, employed members of the labor force would have a more positive economic outlook during Republican administrations...but this could vary depending on Congressional majorities.

Credit Card Debt and Delinquencies:

For a while, I was hearing non-stop about rising credit card balances in the past year or so. This was coinciding with credit card companies raising their interest rates precipitously. Then, I started hearing alot about sharply rising credit delinquincies. I want to explore this space and write a research paper analyzing part of why this might be. 

Most people's spending is divided into consumer goods spending and services spending. One thesis Professor Barbera shared with the economics roundtable a few semesters ago was that during COVID, as services spending fell dramatically because of lockdowns, consumer goods spending rose sharply. This rise was bolstered by stimulus payments and other forms of government transfer payments. One hypothesis I'd like to explore is whether or not part of the rise in personal and credit card debt is due to a failure to decrease consumer goods spending and tendencies to their pre-pandemic levels. Services spending are rising to their pre-pandemic levels, so if consumer goods spending doesn't fall to pre-pandemic levels, consumers will develop deficits/debt. Alternatively, I'm really interested in exploring the effect 'Buy Now, Pay Later' lending schemes are having on consumer spending habits. To me, it seems like these are allowing buyers to buy more goods each month with the same paycheck. But often, people won't account for later expenses, and this could be another cause of rising credit balnaces.   I either want to explore the change over time of consumer good vs services spending before, during, and after COVID, and the potential 
